DATE:30/1/18
URL:http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/kamla-mills-compound-fire-mumbai/article22321565.ece?homepage=true
TITLE:14 killed, several injured in pub fire at Mumbai's Kamla Mills compound
CONTENT:A birthday bash at a pub in a central Mumbai building ended in a tragedy with the death of 14 people, including 11 women, in a blaze that broke out shortly after midnight. Most of the victims died of suffocation.
The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) disaster management control room said that the injured had been taken to KEM Hospital at Parel.
Fire officials said they received the first call at 12.27 a.m. and they rushed eight fire engines and fire tankers to the spot. The blaze was initially declared as a Level II fire but upgraded to Level III at 12.42 p.m. as the fire spread.
According to the fire control room, the fire was reported to have broken out at a restaurant called '1 Above' located in Kamla Trade House.
Eyewitnesses, including several journalists working in media organisations situated in the same compound, said the fire spread fast and affected two adjoining diner-cum-pubs.
Police have booked Hratesh Sanghvi, Jigar Sanghvi and Abhijeet Manka of C Grade Hospitality, which manages the pub, along with others, under IPC sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others).
Chief Minister Fadnavis orders enquiry.
Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis expressed his grief over the incident and ordered an in-depth enquiry.
“Disturbing to know about the loss of lives in unfortunate Kamala Mills fire incident in Mumbai. My thoughts are with the families who lost their loved ones and prayers for the speedy recovery of the injured. Directed the BMC Commissioner to conduct an in-depth enquiry,” he said in a tweet.
In another tweet, he said he had directed Brihanmumbai Municipal Commissioner Ajoy Mehta “to take strong action against erring officials immediately“.
Prime Minister expresses anguish over loss of lives
Prime Minister Narendra Modi has expressed anguish over the loss of lives in the fire.
“Anguished by the fire in Mumbai. My thoughts are with the bereaved families in this hour of grief. I pray that those injured recover quickly,” the Prime Minister’s Office tweeted.
