DATE:29/1/18
URL:http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/maoists-attack-rail-station-in-bihar-abduct-official-porter/article22096108.ece
TITLE:Maoists attack rail station in Bihar, abduct official, porter.
CONTENT:Around 25 Maoists, including women, attacked the Masudan railway station in Bihar’s Munger district, torched its signalling panel and abducted Mukesh Kumar, an assistant station master and a porter late on Tuesday night.

The two were released on Wednesday evening, 16 hours after the abduction even as police, the CRPF and other paramilitary personnel mounted a massive search for them.
Issues threat

Rajesh Kumar, chief public relations officer (CPRO) of East-Central Railway said the incident disrupted movement of trains on the Kiul-Jamalpur section of the division for several hours, causing inconvenience to passengers.

Later, the Maoists called the railway control room in Malda through the abducted ASM, and threatened to kill the captives, “if trains are allowed to ply on the Kiul-Jamalpur section.”

Many trains were diverted through Jhajha and Barauni and some services were curtailed, said the official. Both the captives were released at Jagdishpur in Lakhisarai district, neighbouring Munger.

The Maoists had earlier called a 48-hour bandh in Bihar and Jharkhand to protest “Operation Greenhunt.”

“A joint team of the Central Reserve Police Force, Sashastra Seema Bal and the special task force of the Bihar police launched a hunt in the forest and hilly areas for the Maoists involved in the attack and abduction,” Additional Director General of Police Sanjiv Kumar Singhal told The Hindu.

The operation is being conducted under the supervision of Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kundan Krishnan and IG (Railway) Amit Kumar, he added.

On August 3 this year, a group of Maoists had hijacked a train in Lakhisarai district and abducted two cabin men as part of their week-long protest termed ‘Shahadat Saptah’ (martyr pledge). Meanwhile, the opposition RJD leaders attacked the NDA government and said “law and order has completely broken down in the State”.
